WRITING A TEST
==============

A test in this framework consists of three components: a 'desc' file
with basic metadata, a 'test.changes' (or a 'test.changes.in') file on
which lintian is run and a 'tags' file giving the (sorted) expected
output of lintian when run on that 'test.changes' file.  All files
should be placed in a directory bearing the name of the test.  If the
'test.changes(.in)' file references additional files, they have names
other than 'desc', 'test.changes(.in)' or 'tags'.

This framework should be used to test the checks performed by the
lintian front-end itself on the 'test.changes' file.  Do not include
.deb, .dsc, .orig.tar.gz, .tar.gz, or .diff.gz files in this test
framework.  To build a complete package, the tests framework is more
appropriate.

If the test provides a 'test.changes' file, this will be tested as is.
Otherwise, if it provides a 'test.changes.in', the .in file will be
considered a template and the fields from the 'desc' file will be
expanded into a 'test.changes' file.  This is particularly useful,
since the test-runner provides values for a lot of common variables.
This feature is (and the variables are) inherited from the "t/tests"
framework.  The 'desc' file is described in detail in
"t/tests/README".

Please note that there is no "skeleton" for this framework, since it
does not make sense to have them for this suite. :)

TEST NAMING CONVENTIONS
=======================

Try to avoid naming conflicts between checks in this directory and
checks in the other frameworks.  For tests to trigger certain tags,
please use the check name as a prefix.  Otherwise, there is no strict
naming convention here since there are few enough tags to check that
require a custom 'test.changes' file that there shouldn't be too many
tests in this framework.


RUNNING THE TEST SUITE
======================

The complete test suite will be run with debian/rules runtests, but
this can take quite a lot of time.  Normally this is only necessary
after significant structural changes or before a release as a final
check.

To run a specific test case, run:

    debian/rules runtests onlyrun=<test-name>

Give only the test name, not the full path.

It's often more useful to run every test that is relevant to a
particular tag.  To do that, run:

    debian/rules runtests onlyrun=tag:<tag>

This will run all tests that list that tag in the 'tags' file.


TEST WRITING TIPS
=================

Please keep each test case focused.  One of the problems that
developed with the old test suite is that each test was serving many
separate purposes and testing large swaths of Lintian, which made it
difficult to know what could be changed and what would destroy some
other useful test.  Test cases should only test a set of closely
related tags and new tests should be added for new issues that aren't
part of that closely-related set.

Test cases should be as Lintian-clean as possible except for the tags
that they're testing for.  The template is intended to help with this.
It generates a Lintian-clean basic package for you to start with.  You
should override only the minimal required to trigger your test, and
try to fix any unrelated problems.  Sometimes this won't be possible
and the only way to trigger a tag is to also trigger another tag, and
that's fine, but it shouldn't be the normal case.
